>> Steve Kinney: We have
the ability to open files.
We can edit files.
We can see if they're edited,
[LAUGH] right?
This is all great and wonderful.
Would anyone like to venture a guess what
the next logical feature to implement is?
Saving, right?
So we wanna go ahead and
implement the ability to save a file.
Now a lot of this will not be
particularly controversial.
In the same way that we
have a showOpenDialog,
we've got a showSaveDialog, right?
There will be one difference,
which is there is a difference between
opening this app, typing and hitting Save.
And opening this up, opening a file,
typing and hitting Save, right?
Which is they've opened a file,
we know the file they're working with,
we don't wanna show them
that save dialogue, right?
We could eventually implement
maybe a save as, right?
And that would totally
necessitate a dialogue.
But in this case, we're like, if they
are opening a brand new buffer, okay,
prompt them.
If they are not,
overwrite the current file, right?
And so there's a little bit of nuance.
And so I'll walk us through that one.
And then, after that, that export HTML.
You'll implement that one, that will have
a little few of the edge cases, right?
In that case,
no matter what prompt them, right,
because they might want to
export multiple versions.
We don't wanna overwrite the previous one,
so
that one will always basically
save it to the file system.
But this one will handle a little bit
more of the edge case of what to do in
the event that they have a file, they
don't have a file, so on and so forth.
So in our main process we have something
very similar to the showOpenDialogue.
So go ahead and
make a new function called saveMarkdown,
again, you can call it whatever you want.
I'm actually calling it
exports.saveMarkdown, right?
Because we're gonna need to eventually
wire it up to the save button just like
we did with the get file from user
function that we made earlier.
And this one's gonna take an argument
which is the file path which we have in
our renderer process.
Remember, we're storing it
in that top level variable.
So we'll kind of pass that back in.
Either it will be the file
that's currently open or
that it is set to null by default, right?
So if it's a brand new file it's null,
okay, and
if they've opened the file
previously it is the file path.
So we'll go ahead there and we'll say,
>> Steve Kinney: Well,
we actually will start out with
the simplest possible thing, right?
We'll just say fs.writeFileSync.
You could use the asynchronous API,
arguably you should.
Go ahead, we'll save the file or
actually send the content to.
We're gonna need to save that as well.
So we'll say file and content and
then we'll go ahead and
we'll write that to the file system,
>> Steve Kinney: And
let's just start with that, right.
Now this has got a whole
bunch of problems.
It's got the problem of if they have not
opened up a file that would be null and
then we'll try to write to
null as a first argument fs.
Yeah, it's not good.
But like I said proof of concept,
let's try it out.
So we've gathered these
exports.saveMarkdown in the renderer
process we will go ahead and we will,
>> Steve Kinney: Put
it right here we'll say,
saveMarkdownButton.addEventListener('cl-
ick', ()=>{});.
And we'll say mainProcess.saveMarkdown and
we'll give it that filePath,
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll give it the markdownView.value.
All right, so
whatever is currently in that text
area we'll save that as the content.
We changed the main process which means
we can't just hit refresh and hope for
the best.
It means that we have to go ahead and
kill the app and start it back up again.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, so
if you just try to type and save a file,
it's gonna be bad news bears.
So we'll go ahead, do a grocery list.
We'll get ourselves a tofu steak as well,
>> Steve Kinney: Save the file,
let's see what we got.
If I open it from the file system,
we've saved the tofu steak, right?
We have successfully written
to the file system, right?
It took a little while to get the opening
of the file, but now we're cruising.
We've got edge cases galore that we're
gonna need to start dealing with, so
let's do that.
If the case the file is null,
that's a false E-value,
let's go ask the user where
they would like to save it.
So let's check that out.
We'll go back to main.js.
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll say, if there's no
file,
>> Steve Kinney: We'll ask
them for a file.
So we'll say file = dialog,
>> Steve Kinney: .showSaveDialog.
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll give a title of save Markdown.
This is where you get to get back at
the Mac users cuz they'll never see it.
Now, there's a few other
things that I didn't show you.
These actually all apply for
open file dialog too, which is,
you can specify a defaultPath.
>> Steve Kinney: And you might be,
well that's perilous, right?
I don't know the difference
of where desktop is on MacOS
versus Windows versus Linux,
so on and so forth, right?
I don't wanna put a defaultPath in there.
I don't know how these things work.
Luckily, electron actually has a whole
bunch of really useful aliases for
you as well.
So on the app module,
there's this getPath.
>> Steve Kinney: And it has paths that
will resolve for most operating systems.
So if I say, getPath ('desktop'), right,
that will be the appropriate
desktop folder on MacOS,
on Windows, on Linux, so
on and so forth, right?
Now we're just showing a file dialogue.
If we get this wrong it's not
the worst thing in the world.
But, where this becomes more interesting
later when we make a SQLite database, you
don't wanna put that in the application
bundle cuz that's shared on all users.
You probably wanna put that in a user's
specific settings directory, right?
On Mac OS it's the library folder in
your home directory, Window is app data.
So on and so forth, right?
There's also really useful shortcuts for
all of that.
You can check the documentation.
There's a bunch.
There's desktop.
There's documents.
There's, yeah the user specific settings,
a whole bunch of them that you can use.
We're gonna go with desktop.
If you wanna use documents, go for it, but
some of us have their
screen on a projector, so.
And the other one that
we'll use is filters.
You might be like, I don't need to filter.
Filters is useful because it
will give you, in this case,
we're just gonna say markdown files.
And that means by default, it will try
to save it as a markdown file, right?
So you don't have to put
the file extension on Mac OS or
anything along those lines.
So we'll say filters and we'll say name.
>> Steve Kinney: Markdown Files.
We'll say extensions, whatever you
want that first extension to be.
I'm gonna go with 'md',
>> Steve Kinney: 'markdown' 'mdown',
>> Steve Kinney: 'markdown', cool.
So we've got the basic file
dialogue rocking and rolling.
The value there will be either be wherever
they choose to save it or, in this case,
it's not an array cause they can only
save to one file which is slightly
certainly confusing that showOpenDialog
gives an array of file names.
And showSaveDialog gives you a single one.
I get it, I don't make these choices,
my job is just to tell you about them.
And so if they choose a place, we're gonna
get that string back as the file name.
And if they don't choose a place,
then we'll get undefined.
So we do need to give ourselves a guard
clause cuz that being undefined instead of
null is not doing us any better
than our original implementation.
So we'll say,
there's still no file, right?
If they didn't pass as a file and
they didn't pick a file, just return,
like we're done here.
We tried, we're trying to work with
people here, so on and so forth.
Cool, so let's give this a shot and
see how it goes.
We changed the main process so
we gots to leave.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
Open the file, Grocery List, tofu steak,
anyone else need anything
from whole foods?
Broccoli, did you have to pick one that
I'm not totally sure how to spell?
No.
>> Steve Kinney: Anyone
know how to spell broccoli?
>> Speaker 2: Two L's.
>> Steve Kinney: Two L's,
I was right the first time.
>> Speaker 2: I would go with two C's.
>> Steve Kinney: Two C's?
[LAUGH] Whatever,
we'll probably [LAUGH] well,
we have a thing that we
can fix during the break.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Steve Kinney: Where's the chatroom when
I need them, cool.
So we'll go ahead and
we'll Save this file.
>> Steve Kinney: Make
sure that it still works.
My potentially misspelled
broccoli is on there.